---
menu: "main"
title: "About"
---

In April 2012, ISO, the international standards body which had already given us
the core media foundations of MPEG-2, MP3 and MP4, finally ratified the version
of its next generation adaptive streaming standard: MPEG-DASH. In an industry
besieged by three comparable (but incompatible) segmented formats many asked
â€“ why another? The participating companies in the MPEG-DASH standardization
(including Microsoft, Apple, Netflix, Qualcomm, Ericsson, Samsung, and many
others) saw a vision of interoperability and convergence required for
large-scale market growth that trumped the proprietary and competing solutions.
They replaced multiple corporation-controlled solutions with a single
industry-defined open standard.

In the same spirit of cooperation in which MPEG-DASH was created, the leading
streaming companies got together to form an industry forum to promote and
catalyze the adoption of MPEG-DASH and help transition it from a specification
into a real business. The DASH Industry Forum (DASH-IF) grew out of a
grassroots DASH Promoters Group and was formally incorporated in September 2012.
Today it has 67 members spread throughout the world. DASH-IF is filled with
member companies who are realists about the DASH deployment challenges. DASH by
itself is no magic panacea for the fragmentation problems of media, devices and
markets. However, the DASH-IF members do share a common vision that the
long-term benefits of convergence outweigh the costs of shorter-term efforts
involved in achieving that goal. They are willing to take on the work of
creating recommendations, filing bugs, and attending plug-fests and interop
events, with the belief that their business and the Internet streaming market
in large will benefit a great deal with convergence around DASH. The DASH-IF,
representing all sectors of the streaming media ecosystem, is proactively and
deterministically shaping the future and success of MPEG DASH.

